All documentation for the workshop is best viewed from the github.io pages

[Documentation](https://ucdavis-bioinformatics-training.github.io/2020-Epigenetics_Workshop/)

Introduction to Analysis of Epigenetic Data  
Nov. 30, 2020, 9 a.m. - Dec. 04, 2020, 4:30 p.m.  
Organizer - Bioinformatics Core  
Contact - UC Davis Bioinformatics Core, training.bioinformatics@ucdavis.edu

This workshop will include a rich collection of lectures and hands-on sessions, covering both theory and tools associated with the analysis of data generated by several common types of epigenetic experiments, primarily data from the Illumina platform. Participants will explore experimental design, cost estimation, data generation, and analysis of DNA sequence data. Participants will explore software and protocols, create and modify workflows, and diagnose/treat problematic data utilizing high performance computing services. Exercises will be performed with provided datasets, using command-line interaction on the Genome Center Compute Cluster, which will be available to you to use for a week after the workshop, so you can continue to practice these skills.

There are no prerequisites other than basic familiarity with genomic concepts. Anyone with an interest in epigenetics is welcome! Some familiarity with the command-line and R is helpful, and we suggest that students use the week before the workshop to ensure they are comfortable with the material provided under the prerequisites heading in the sidebar. This workshop will run from 9:00am to 5:00pm each day.

Participants must have access to a computer with a recent version of R, Rstudio, and Java installed, and an application that allows them to ssh into a server (e.g. Windows PowerShell, Terminal or iTerm2 on a Mac, or Bash for Linux), as well as a reliable internet connection.

The registration fee is $1,000 for UC students, postdocs, staff and faculty, $1,200 for Non-UC academic or non-profit participants and $1,700 for other participants. We accept credit cards, as well as UC Davis recharge accounts, for payment. We are pleased to be able to offer three group pricing bundle options for labs with multiple registrants: 15% off registration for groups of 3-5, 25% off registration for groups of 6-10, and custom instructional packages for groups larger than 10. If you are interested in one of these pricing options, please contact us at training.bioinformatics@ucdavis.edu for a custom coupon code.

Registration closes on: Nov. 30, 2020

### FAQ

Who should attend? … Prior course participants have included faculty, post docs, grad students, staff, and industry researchers.

What are the prerequisites? … There are no prerequisites other than familiarity with general biological concepts and an enthusiasm for learning bioinformatics data analysis. Some familiarity with the command-line and R is desirable.  However, we will dedicate time on the first day to bringing everyone up-to-speed to be able to run the commands needed during this workshop.

What do I need? … You will need access to a computer with a recent version of R, Rstudio, and Java installed, and an application that allows them to ssh into a server (e.g. Windows PowerShell, Terminal or iTerm2 on a Mac, or Bash for Linux), as well as a reliable internet connection. If your department does not allow you to install software on your computer, please contact us ahead of time.

Can I bring my own data? … We will provide experimental datasets for use during the workshop, as this helps to keep the workshop moving. There will be time, however, to discuss your own datasets and how you might work with them outside of the workshop.

How do I apply? … All registration is “first-come, first-served”. There is no application process.  Sign up as soon as possible to ensure your place in the workshop.

Where can I find more information, including your policies?  ... Go to our website (bioinformatics.ucdavis.edu/training/) and check out our FAQ and Policies.

### Questions

If you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to contact us at training.bioinformatics@ucdavis.edu


### Register

https://registration.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu/events/epigenetic_2020/
